# transport_victoria_databricks

The 'transport_victoria_databricks' project was generated by using the default-python template.

* `src/`: Python source code for this project.
  * `src/transport_victoria_databricks/`: Shared Python code that can be used by jobs and pipelines.
* `resources/`:  Resource configurations (jobs, pipelines, etc.)
* `tests/`: Unit tests for the shared Python code.
* `fixtures/`: Fixtures for data sets (primarily used for testing).


## Getting started

Choose how you want to work on this project:

(a) Directly in your Databricks workspace, see
    https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/bundles/workspace.

(b) Locally with an IDE like Cursor or VS Code, see
    https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/vscode-ext.html.

(c) With command line tools, see https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/cli/databricks-cli.html

If you're developing with an IDE, dependencies for this project should be installed using uv:

*  Make sure you have the UV package manager installed.
   It's an alternative to tools like pip: https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/.
*  Run `uv sync --dev` to install the project's dependencies.


# Using this project using the CLI

The Databricks workspace and IDE extensions provide a graphical interface for working
with this project. It's also possible to interact with it directly using the CLI:

1. Authenticate to your Databricks workspace, if you have not done so already:
    ```
    $ databricks configure
    ```

2. To deploy a development copy of this project, type:
    ```
    $ databricks bundle deploy --target dev
    ```
    (Note that "dev" is the default target, so the `--target` parameter
    is optional here.)

    This deploys everything that's defined for this project.
    For example, the default template would deploy a pipeline called
    `[dev yourname] transport_victoria_databricks_etl` to your workspace.
    You can find that resource by opening your workpace and clicking on **Jobs & Pipelines**.

3. Similarly, to deploy a production copy, type:
   ```
   $ databricks bundle deploy --target prod
   ```
   Note the default template has a includes a job that runs the pipeline every day
   (defined in resources/sample_job.job.yml). The schedule
   is paused when deploying in development mode (see
   https://docs.databricks.com/dev-tools/bundles/deployment-modes.html).

4. To run a job or pipeline, use the "run" command:
   ```
   $ databricks bundle run
   ```

5. Finally, to run tests locally, use `pytest`:
   ```
   $ uv run pytest
   ```

# Security

## Roles required for Databricks to write and receive notification from the blob storage

* Storage Blob Data Contributor
* Storage Queue Data Contributor
* EventGrid EventSubscription Contributor

## Visual Code Setup

* Install the Databricks extension if necessary
* After creating the virtual Python environment, install databricks-connect (if cluster will be used)

## Commands

```databricks
databricks bundle validate -t [dev/prod]
databricks bundle deploy -t [dev/prod]
databricks bundle run bronze_vline_trip_updates -t [dev/prod]


```

## Maintenance Command

```sql
-- Optimise the table
OPTIMIZE transport_vic_dev.`01_bronze`.bronze_vline_trip_updates;

```
